#### Research narrative
April 2023

##### Summary
My work has centred around the development of large-scale collaborations in infectious disease modelling. As a research assistant I have worked on both methodological development, and extensive coordination and community organisation at the research-policy interface. After contributing to the UK national COVID-19 response over 2020, I led two cross-European modelling collaborations. From this experience I am building a body of work towards a PhD by Publication at LSHTM.

I aim to advance the methodological basis for collaborative modelling projects, while advocating for a more structured route for their implementation in public decision making. There is increasing interest in these projects, with heavy investment from the Wellcome Trust, the US CDC, and the WHO, and I believe my experience lays the foundations for a career between infectious disease modelling and public policy.

##### Research and scholarship

From 2019 I worked on modelling dengue fever in the Philippines, relating the force of infection to healthcare accessibility. I worked on spatial modelling using seven years’ patient linelist data and I successfully passed a formal PhD upgrading in May 2020.

From March 2020 I focused on contributing to the UK COVID-19 response. My contributions were primarily to estimating the effective reproduction number (Rt) and to SPI-M evidence submissions. I supported data management and production pipelines for twice-weekly forecasts, and ad hoc requests for short-term analysis. In total I was lead- or co-author on 22 SPI-M submissions. My first author contributions included: exploring biases in Rt estimation arising from choice of data source, which I developed into a journal publication; and estimating the impact of the autumn 2020 firebreak policy in Wales and Northern Ireland, used to inform policy discussion in England.

Over 2020 I also worked on worldwide COVID-19 data sourcing and effective reproduction number estimation. I was a lead developer of the covidregionaldata R package for open-access subnational COVID-19 data. I contributed to the technical development of EpiNow2, a model for Rt estimation and forecasting, and contributed to producing worldwide daily Rt forecasts at epiforecasts.io/covid/posts/global. I provided training on EpiNow2 software for users in public health agencies in Slovakia and Canada. Over >1.5 years I contributed to the US COVID-19 Forecast Hub, leading production of weekly forecasts for COVID-19 deaths in 52 US states; we continue to develop this work into a formal academic output.

From 2021 I played a key part in two European modelling collaborations, in both instances making substantial contributions to development and management. The first such project was the European COVID-19 Forecast Hub. I was instrumental in setting up the hub following funding from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and subsequently a named co-investigator on a contract to continue the project in 2022-23. My work included extensive software development, to collect, aggregate, evaluate, and report on many probabilistic forecasts for cases and deaths in 32 countries. Over 40 modelling teams contributed to the project and its outputs are still used in weekly ECDC surveillance reporting. From this I developed a first-author paper evaluating the forecasting performance of ensemble models, in press at eLife. I am preparing a further first-author paper investigating the performance of individual participating models.

From 2022 our team applied to develop the European COVID-19 Scenario Hub. I co-wrote this and I am a named co-Investigator on this grant. I played a substantial role in developing infrastructure for multiple scenario model projections, resulting in three rounds of collaborative scenario modelling and analysis. I set up and chaired weekly workshops to facilitate dialogue between modellers and ECDC colleagues, in which we set policy-relevant COVID-19 scenarios. This work has been used by the ECDC in evidence to the European Commission. I have subsequently written a first-author paper evaluating the method of data collection in collaborative Hub projects (available on Github before submission to medRxiv and Epidemics).

In both the European Modelling Hubs I contributed to grant management, ensuring timely resolution of deliverables, and I have presented my work on the Hubs at the ESCAIDE 2022 conference. In recognition of my work overall, I was awarded an individual grant under the LSHTM COVID-19 Response Fund for Research Fellows and above. The grant funds three months’ independent research, where I propose to review collaborative modelling practices in the environmental sciences as an example of analogous developments in infectious disease modelling.

#### Significant outputs

1: Sherratt, K.*, Abbott, S.*, and others, 2021. Exploring surveillance data biases when estimating the reproduction number: with insights into subpopulation transmission of COVID-19 in England, Phil. Trans. R. Soc., doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2020.0283 [*co-first]

The effective reproduction number (Rt) was widely used in UK public COVID-19 discourse to summarise infectious disease transmission levels. While producing these for SPI-M, our team saw that Rt varied depending on the data source used to estimate it (counts of cases, hospitalisations, or deaths). We suspected that each source sampled from differing subpopulations, so that different Rt estimates give insight into how transmission dynamics vary between them. This was relevant to UK policy, e.g. in allocating resources for COVID-19 testing. We presented this work at SPI-M, then considered by SAGE. I led work as co-first author, jointly developing code and text for SPI-M submissions and independently developing code and text for publication.

2: Sherratt, K., and others, 2023. Predictive performance of multi-model ensemble forecasts of COVID-19 across European nations. eLife, accepted, in press. At: medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.06.16.22276024v1

This paper represents the efforts of all researchers who participated in the European forecast hub. We report on predictive performance for COVID-19 cases and deaths across Europe over 2021, including 29 forecast models for 32 countries. An ensemble had a consistent strong performance across countries over time, demonstrating and supporting the usefulness of multi-model collaboration projects. I led this work as first author, including developing the analysis plan and writing all code and text. 

3: Palmer, J.*. Sherratt, K.*, and others, 2021. covidregionaldata: Subnational data for COVID-19 epidemiology. Journal of Open Source Software, 6(63), 3290. At: doi.org/10.21105/joss.03290 [*co-first]

COVID-19 emphasised localised decision making in public health. However, subnational datasets were often only available in originating countries’ languages and required highly customised methods for data management, impeding wider use. We built an R package to access real-time subnational data for 15+ countries, such as Brazil, India, or the USA, with an interface to global data maintained elsewhere. I was a lead developer, including: data sourcing and harmonisation with continuous integration, unit testing, package development, community building users and developers.

4: Sherratt, K., and others, 2023. Characterising information loss due to aggregating epidemic model outputs. Working paper, pre-submission to MedRXiv and Epidemics. At: github.com/covid19-forecast-hub-europe/aggregation-info-loss/blob/main/Co-author-review.pdf 

We aimed to understand information loss when collecting aggregated results from multiple models. Modellers often summarise results into probabilistic quantiles, losing the time-dependence of each model simulation. We compared collecting results as quantiles against a subsample of each model's simulations. Working with simulations we calculate additional epidemic characteristics, gain a better view of uncertainty between models, and evaluate projections against observed data. I led this work from conception to write up, in collaboration with participants of the Scenario Hub.

5: Abbott, S., Sherratt, K., Gerstung, M., Funk, S., 2022. Estimation of the test-to-test distribution as a proxy for generation interval distribution for the Omicron variant in England. medRxiv. At: doi.org/10.1101/2022.01.08.22268920 

We explained the fast spread of the Omicron variant as plausibly due to a shorter generation time (time from being infected to infecting others), by estimating its growth rate and comparing to the dominant Delta variant. This was a key piece of evidence for estimating risk from the variant early in its UK emergence, and was discussed at SPI-M over December 2021-January 2022. I contributed code and initial analysis
